[MUSIC]
[SOUND] We're going to talk about
sockets and how you use them in code,
how you write code to talk
on networks using sockets.
So we're going to talk
about the socket interface.
This is really important when you want to
write code that communicates on a network.
So if you're not writing code
that communicates on a network,
you can not worry about sockets.
But once you start writing code, and
that's what we're doing now, it has to
be able to use this socket interface.
The socket interface is the most
common way to talk on the internet or
to programatically communicate on
the internet through a piece of code.
So we're going to learn
how to make sockets and
how you use them in connections.
So, sockets are a programming
interface to talking on the network.
It can be used in many languages.
C is probably the first place
that you used them, C, C++.
We're going to use Python.
You can create sockets in Python and
that's what we're using because that's how
we're programming on the Raspberry Pi.
It's based on a client/server
programming model.
So, it assumes client/server interface.
It can be used without client/server, but
it assumes client/server, so
that's what we're assuming, in general.
And that's mostly what we're
going to be dealing with.
So, what we'll go through here is we'll
talk about how you might make a client.
So, we're going to make sort
of a generic client in Python.
And so this client is going to talk,
it's going to connect to some server and
it's going to request something and
get a result back.
That's all it's going to do.
Now this is just a generic
server that we're making, or
rather generic client that we're making.
You can modify this to be a different
type of client, right, but
we're just making a generic one,
send some arbitrary data.
So, here's what the outline of
the structure of such a piece of code,
a code for a client would look like.
First, if you want to make this generic
network client, you gotta create a socket.
Okay?
So we're
going to have to have a little
code that creates a socket.
And then once you created the socket
you gotta connect the socket to
the server, right?
So on the server side there's gotta be
a socket, and you gotta connect those.
Now when you create the socket,
you're creating it locally on the client.
You connect it to the server's socket.
Then you send your data.
Once you have the connection made,
you send your data, which would
generally be a request to the server.
So you could send your data.
Then you wait for some response,
right, some response data.
So the server presumably will do
something and send you a response.
So you wait for that data.
Then once you receive it,
you close the socket.
You do something with the data if you want
to do it, and then you close the socket.
So that is your really simple,
most simple client, right?
You create the socket,
you connect the socket,
you send a request, you receive
a response, and you close the socket.
Now note that in a real client,
like say it was a web client,
you wouldn't immediately close the socket.
Maybe you want to send more requests and
get more responses.
But this is generically what you might do.
So we're going to go through this step
by step, what the code might look like.
We'll go through the beginning
of it right now.
So creating a socket,
how might you do this?
So here's some Python
code that would do that.
First you import the socket.
So you need to import the socket package.
The socket package has all these
socket library functions in it so
you've gotta import that.
So you start your code off with that.
And then the next line
is creating the socket.
Now notice that this next line for
space reasons on the screen,
we couldn't put it all on one line.
But this would be on one long line.
Okay?
And so, it wouldn't be broken
up as two lines like that.
mysock = socket.socket, so
on and so on and so on.
So it's calling a function called socket,
socket.socket(), okay.
That function, that method really,
creates a socket.
So mysock,
after I do this call, mysock is equal
to the socket that I've just created.
Now, notice that this socket method,
it takes, in this case,
it's taking two arguments, okay.
The first argument is socket.AF_INET.
So AF_INET declares
the Address Family to be Internet.
That is always what
we're going to be using,
because we're talking on the internet.
Now there are other address families for
other types of networks.
But by far the most common's
going to be Internet.
[COUGH] Say I wanted to do
infrared communication,
there's an infrared address family and
so on.
Much less common, right?
Vast majority of communication,
we're going to use AF_INET
because we're using the Internet.
Also, the next argument SOCK_STREAM,
SOCK_STREAM indicates that we're
using TCP, connection-based communication
as compared to UDP which is conectionless.
We're using TCP and
you remember what TCP gives us.
It's more overhead but
TCP gives us flow control,
it gives us reliable communication,
that's important.
So we know that if we send
a message it will be received.
It won't get dropped mysteriously.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]